README.md, before:

Systemd zRAM service
--------------------

Use a part of your RAM as compressed swap.


[`zram`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zram) is a Linux kernel feature
that provides a form of virtual memory compression. `zram` module increases
performance by avoiding paging to disk and using a compressed block device in
RAM instead, inside which paging takes place until it is necessary to use the
swap space on a hard disk drive. Since using `zram` is an alternative way to
provide swapping on RAM, `zram` allows Linux to make a better use of RAM when
swapping/paging is required, especially on older computers with less RAM
installed.  It also eliminates wear on a microSD used in a Raspberry Pi by
moving swap space off of the flash memory and into RAM.

See also:
https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/blockdev/zram.txt

This program provides a systemd service to automatically load and configure
such module at system boot.

You can choose compression algorithm by editing systemd service. To see available 
algorithms do `cat /sys/block/zram0/comp_algorithm`.

You can choose to have systems with less then 1GB of RAM to have up to 2 * the
ram space used for zram swap.  Edit the systemd service to say yes|no


Installation
------------

You can choose between different installation methods. Note that uninstallation
don't removes active zram disk.

### Classic method ###

- Build and install:

        $ make
        # make install

- Uninstall:

        # make uninstall

### Debian package ###

- Build and install:

        $ make debian_pkg
        # dpkg -i systemd-zram_*.deb

- Uninstall:

        # apt purge systemd-zram


### Arch Linux package

- Build and install:

        $ make arch_pkg
        # pacman -U systemd-zram-*.pkg.tar.xz

Alternatively you can install it from AUR:

        $ trizen -S systemd-zram

- Uninstall:

        # pacman -Rsc systemd-zram


Usage
-----

To start the service execute as root:

        # systemctl start systemd-zram

To stop it:

        # systemctl stop systemd-zram

If you want to enable zram at boot, just run as root:

        # systemctl enable systemd-zram

And for disable it at boot:

        # systemctl disable systemd-zram

Commit message:

Starting to fix the README to document changes in zram

README.md, after:

Systemd zRAM service
--------------------

Use a part of your RAM as compressed swap.


[`zram`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zram) is a Linux kernel feature
that provides a form of virtual memory compression. `zram` module increases
performance by avoiding paging to disk and using a compressed block device in
RAM instead, inside which paging takes place until it is necessary to use the
swap space on a hard disk drive. Since using `zram` is an alternative way to
provide swapping on RAM, `zram` allows Linux to make a better use of RAM when
swapping/paging is required, especially on older computers with less RAM
installed.  It also eliminates wear on a microSD used in a Raspberry Pi by
moving swap space off of the flash memory and into RAM.

See also:
https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/blockdev/zram.txt

*** Contrary to the above documents - the zram device is NOT
automatically provided in all kernels.  This version of systemd-zram
addresses this issue:

*** With the Ubuntu 21.10 release, Ubuntu removed the zram module
and it must be installed with linux-modules-extra-raspi.  There was
also a recent article in "Make Use of" pointed out that there is also
a way to enable the swapping feature on a Raspberry PI by adding
the line "zswap.enable=1" to the end of /boot/firmware/cmdline.txt
This program provides a systemd service to automatically load and configure
such module at system boot.

You can choose compression algorithm by editing systemd service. To see available 
algorithms do `cat /sys/block/zram0/comp_algorithm`.

You can choose to have systems with less then 1GB of RAM to have up to 2 * the
ram space used for zram swap.  Edit the systemd service to say yes|no


Installation
------------

You can choose between different installation methods. Note that uninstallation
don't removes active zram disk.

### Classic method ###

- Build and install:

        $ make
        # make install

- Uninstall:

        # make uninstall

### Debian package ###

- Build and install:

        $ make debian_pkg
        # dpkg -i systemd-zram_*.deb

- Uninstall:

        # apt purge systemd-zram


### Arch Linux package

- Build and install:

        $ make arch_pkg
        # pacman -U systemd-zram-*.pkg.tar.xz

Alternatively you can install it from AUR:

        $ trizen -S systemd-zram

- Uninstall:

        # pacman -Rsc systemd-zram


Usage
-----

To start the service execute as root:

        # systemctl start systemd-zram

To stop it:

        # systemctl stop systemd-zram

If you want to enable zram at boot, just run as root:

        # systemctl enable systemd-zram

And for disable it at boot:

        # systemctl disable systemd-zram
